Comments on NanoFIP VHDL code from Javier Serrano

General comments
----------------

The code is very clear and the abundance of comments makes it easy to
follow. Some signal names are way too long though. It would be more
useful in general to give some good comments about the meaning of
signals next to their declaration, instead of trying to embed too much
info in the signal name.

The guidelines specify that active low signals should be suffixed with
_n. Sometimes we see signals or ports were the underscore has been ommitted,
like rstpon_i, which make it difficult to figure out if the n if part
of the name ("power oN reset") or if it is there to mark the signal as
active low (which in this particular case it is).

If a file is not listed below it does not mean all is good, just that
I did not have time to look at it ;)

nanofip.vhd
-----------

Line 313 and 314. Synplify attributes make code less portable. Could
they be pushed out of the code into some Synplify config file? I don't
have strong feelings about this though.

wf_engine_control.vhd
---------------------

Line 198. It is preferable to have all ports be std_logic or
std_logic_vector, see comment on line 178 of the reset unit.

Line 290. This state machine can be stuck in a given state for a
number of reasons, most notably the physical interruption of the wfip
traffic. Granted, things should go back to normal (i.e. Idle) once the
link is re-established, thanks to the appearance of rx_byte_ready_p_i
pulses with incoherent byte contents, but that's a bit weak in terms
of protection. I would favor timeouts relying only on the system clock
as an additional way to go back to Idle. In fact this is probably a
comment that applies to other state machines in the design. The
"finger-crossing" nature of the current protection is even more
apparent in the id_dat_frame_ok state, where after a link cut you have
to wait until a valid received frame while the counter (free running)
is more than 2 in value. Again, not a high risk for things to go
wrong, but we can get quite a lot of peace of mind with independent
timeouts. After a bit of thinking, something worse could happen: the
state machine could be stopped in the id_dat_frame_ok state and
re-awakened after a while (when the link is back) and then go to
consumption of some dummy data that was not even destined to this
station. IMHO independent timeouts should be mandatory in all states
of all state machines bound to have this type of problems, unless the
cost in logic is prohibitive.

wf_incr_counter.vhd
-------------------

Line 72. The ports nfip_rst_i and reinit_counter_i do exactly the same
thing. One should go. Also, the counter does not know it's inside a
nanofip, I think a reset should be called rst_i and not nfip_rst_i. 

Line 81. Minor point. The output port counter_o should be
std_logic_vector.  See similar comment for line 178 of
wf_reset_unit.vhd.

wf_inputs_synchronizer.vhd
--------------------------

Line 240. These two signals are very critical: the fd_rxd_edge_p_o
output is made from them. And then this edge detection signal is fed
to the wf_rx_tx_osc block, where it is used to manufacture very
critical "clock" signals whose malfunctioning would compromise the
deglitcher block. It is therefore important to try to have these edge
detectors as robust as possible, and add deglitching here. With the
current implementation if there is a glitch in the rx line, even
narrower than one uclk period, there is a risk of generating a
spurious edge pulse. Making something much more robust is easy and
cheap: add two more stages to the pipeline and do a super-robust edge
detector by requiring that two signals are zero and the other two are
one. This will induce a delay, which might have to be compensated in
other signals (fd_rxd_o) so the whole thing is coherent.

Line 250 onwards. Cosmetics: the vector notation is shorter, so I'd
stick to it for all cases, including the varX_access.

Line 326. I don't think it's a good idea to synchronize the data from
the user in slone mode. If there is an incoherent state (i.e. some
bits have flipped and others haven't) this state will propagate
through the pipeline. Only control signals need to be synchronized (as
is done for the wishbone). The user *must* ensure the data are stable
by the time VAR3_RDY goes to zero, so the 3*16 FFs spent here can only
get us trouble. Incidentally, I think we should change the spec so it
does not say we sample the data on the first clock tick after VAR3_RDY
goes down. We can also sample a couple of ticks later, the user should
not care. Oops, now I see these lines are also used in wishbone mode
for data_in. I am pretty sure the argument still applies. In fact we
are not synchronizing the WB address, why synchronize the data_in?

Line 347. One could argue about the need for these. We know these
inputs are static. While I can't really think how these FFs could get
us in trouble, they are certainly not needed, so why risk it?

wf_reset_unit.vhd
-----------------

Line 178. Minor point. It is better to use only std_logic and
std_logic_vector for ports, for the reasons explained in paragraph
4.15 in the guidelines. This is most important for the top entity, so
not very important here. Internal conversion to t_var should be
simple.

Line 419. Minor detail. "reception or" -> "reception of"

Line 421. Same thing.

wf_rx_deglitcher.vhd
--------------------

Line 90. Minor point. It should be "g_DEGLITCH_LGTH" instead of
"c_DEGLITCH_LGTH".

Line 103. Minor: it should be "WF_rx_tx_osc" instead of "WF_tx_rx_osc".

wf_rx_tx_osc.vhd
----------------

Line 106. Minor point. Generics should start with "g_".
